title: Students
long_title: Common roles for students
--

h2. Permissions applied to common roles

The roles used in Haplo vary between institutions and the permissions applied to those roles can also vary between institutions. The descriptions below are the common roles and common permissions used by most institutions. 

Access to PhD Manager, Ethics Monitor, Funding, Repository and Profile functionality only applies where the institution has subscribed to use this module. 


h3. Postgraduate researcher

Can access data directly related to their own project. 
Can view basic information (name, email, department) on staff and student profiles.

h4. PhD Manager

Can view data on their project record except any fields which are restricted because they are only visible to the Graduate Office or other staff and not shown to the student.

Can view and use:

* Supervision meetings
* Annual progress reviews, Application to transfer
* Change requests (requests to change mode, suspend etc)
* Examinations

Some parts of each process will be restricted, for instance the supervisor only will be able to nominate examiners. Some parts of each process may be restricted from view at specific times during the process, for instance examiner reports may not be visible until after confirmation by a committee or Director of Graduate School. 

h4. Ethics Monitor

Can submit an application for ethical review. 
Can view the progress of the application through the review process. 
Cannot edit the application after submission unless it is returned to them for changes. 
Receives and email and task if application is returned to them for changes. 
Cannot view comments submitted by individual committee members during a committee online decision process. 
Receives notification of the final outcome and can view edited feedback from the committee.
Can recall or withdraw their application until it is scheduled for a committee discussion. 

h4. Repository

Can submit research outputs to the institutional repository. Outputs are reviewed by the repository team prior to publication on the public repository. 

h4. Profile

Can edit their public profile. Commonly this includes uploading a photo to their profile, adding and editing social media links and biographical text. 

h3. Taught students

Can access data directly related to their own project. Can view basic information (name, email, department) on staff and student profiles.

h4. Ethics Monitor

Can submit an application for ethical approval. 
Can view the progress of the application through the approval process. 
Cannot edit the application after submission unless it is returned to them for changes. Receives and email and task if application is returned to them for changes. 

Cannot view comments submitted by individual committee members during a committee online decision process. 
Receives notification of the final outcome and can view edited feedback from the committee.


