title: Guidance
long_title: PhD Manager Guidance
class: DocNodeTextileWithTOC
--

h2. Tasks and notifications

Users receive an email notification and task when they are required to take action in a workflow.

Tasks are displayed at login on the homepage and disappear when the action is completed.

[IMAGE 0001.png Tasks and notifications]


h2. Progressing forms

Options to progress forms are colour coded:
Green - action, progress or approve
Orange - return to a previous user in the workflow
Red - do not approve

Before submitting a form there is an opportunity to add notes and private notes.  After submission, these notes can be edited by the user who submitted them.

[IMAGE 0002.png Progressing forms]


h2. Confirmation of project details

In PhD Manager applications start with a check that key information on the project is correct.  If it is not, changes can be requested via the institution's doctoral researcher administrative team.


h2. Tray

Records can be easily accessed by adding them to the Tray.

[IMAGE 0003.png Tray]


h2. Home page

Once logged in all users see the same home page, with different levels of access (based on user permissions) to:
* University structure
* Committees displays the relevant committees and upcoming meetings
* Calendar displays upcoming training and development events
* Guides on how to use your Haplo system

[IMAGE 0004.png Home page]


h2. Profile page

Every user has a profile page which displays key information.

It includes links to the Haplo products.

[IMAGE 0005.png User profile page]


h2. Supervisor record

From the profile page, the current and historic supervision and examination experience is displayed, with links to doctoral researcher records.

External supervision and examination experience can be added.


[IMAGE 0006.png Supervisor record]


h2. Project page

Key information related to the research project and links to applications are on the project page.

[IMAGE 0007.png Project page]


h2. Project history

Displays all activity recorded in the system on one page.


h2. Project dates

Project dates displays key deadlines, when reminders are sent and when actions were completed.

Reminders are sent on specified dates.


h2. Supervision meetings

Supervisory meetings can be started by supervisors or doctoral researchers.

They can be scheduled for the future, which will send an email notification to the participants selected, or recorded after the meeting has taken place.

Meetings can be recorded as:
* In person
* Telephone
* Email
* Video conference

Meeting notes are then added by the doctoral researcher and supervisor attending the meeting.

The meeting notes are confirmed, or revisions can be requested.

Once the meeting is marked as complete, follow-on notes can be added.

The meeting can also be recorded as not taking place.

Previous supervisory meetings are displayed by academic year and can be downloaded.


[IMAGE 0008.png Supervision meetings]


h2. Change requests

Change requests are typically submitted by the doctoral researcher or supervisor to request a change to registration, e.g. suspension, extension and change of mode of attendance.  On approval project dates and status are updated.


h2. Absence

Short-term absence, e.g. holiday or fieldwork, can be recorded by doctoral researchers.  These absences do not change project dates or status.  Longer term absence is submitted via a change request.


h2. Development

Training and development activities are recorded by the doctoral researcher in the following ways:


h3. Analysis

Provides a training needs analysis which allows level and priorities to be set, with links to training and development events.

[IMAGE 0009.png Training needs analysis]


h3. Training plan

Depending on the institutional set up, this can be submitted annually and approved by the supervisor, or can be submitted throughout the academic year.

[IMAGE 0010.png Training plan]


h3. Log

Doctoral researchers are invited to institutional events and can respond via the system.

These events are logged and the attendance record displayed.

External events can be added by doctoral researchers.

The log can be downloaded.

[IMAGE 0011.png Development Log]